## Javascript restrictions

safety of ads containing JS, how to create a sandbox?

difficult safety of dynamic JS

ad-safe: remove unsafe parts of JS

ad-safe restrictions: limitation on global var/builtin such as Array or Boolean/this/arguments/etc.

trade-off between expressiveness and safety

example: FBJS, how FB apps are programmed; security: no direct access to DOM, no tampering with EE/FB libs;

wrong version of AD Blocking Plus, which is uploaded by Google, was malicious; how to remove them; how to differentiate between two versions; effects

Google preventing 3rd party blockers

## 3rd party web tracking

contents of a page are from many different sources; apparently free; but where's hidden price tag? ADs!

get cookie from advertisers; but websites themselves don't take the responsibility

websites refers to each others; user profile leakage due to aggregation such as ID and browse history; 

AD ecosystem: users are 'sold' to advertisers; collect behavior->analyze->deliver to advertisers

there were many trackers such as Google/Amazon at a time

implications: different price for different costumer; personalization; end with a static status, loop forever; target scandal

how does information leak? HTTP; scripts; first party uses them deliberately

what info is gathered? etc.

even without Cookie, passive/dynamic fingerprinting can collect some valuable info

But, investigation showed that people didn't like targeted marketing!

laws & policies in US/EU

can we opt out cookies???

prevent 3rd parties from setting cookies, putting them in a blacklist

users can choose whether ads are based on their behavior or interests(Google Analytics)

visual tools: firefox lightbeam

anti-tracking: block rules such as ABP

## private search/browsing

private search: both input and output?

private browsing: client side(privacy mode), don't store any info about site/pages you've visited, but on the server side, they cannot be completely secret; extensions are disabled by default since they are 3rd parties
DNT(do not track) flag(in HTTP header); can be configured in firefox UI

3rd parties are not allowed to collect users' info unless exception

DNT both send to server and received by client? why? In fact they can be ignored

## stateless fingerprinting

EFF fingerprint testing, test whether the browser can resist tracking

> fingerprint-?->configuration and other info about the browser and also its user?

identifiable since your fingerprint(extension, OS, browser etc.) is the unique among many records!

how the login records are tracked?(like iframe? not sure)

how the website know what kinds of extensions you have? try to trigger the mechanism of the extensions(such as loading some resources?)

## ad blocking again?

50% network traffic are from ads

website can detect that users are using ad-block, and they don't want users to do this

blocking lists: filterlists.com

ad-block also contribute to decreasing the latency

