speculation: don't need to wait for conditional jump completely, execute speculatively, high perf or recall the wrong execution

a similar issue: precise exception such as div 0 or page fault

basic Tomasulo cannot stop the machine at a specific time, we cannot draw a line and prevent the instructions after the line from executing

**solution: add a stage that 'commits' the state in issue order**

an instruction is issues->allocate a reorder buffer(ROB) entry, it is like a queue and can retain the issue order(or program order), each slot of ROB contains a source(the functional unit it is listening to through the common data bus) and a destination(a specific register or NULL when the instruction is a load/store)

two sides of register file: issue side(as before) and commit side. When the head of the ROB completes, we can remove it and update the value to the commit side, this also leaves a empty slot in the back of ROB which lets a following instruction be issued. In the perspective of the commit side, program order is retained, which allows speculation and precise exception.

misprediction detection: when the conditional jump is poped at the front of the ROB, we are able to determine that if we've predicted right

how to handle the misprediction: remove all the elements in the ROB; replace issue-side register, which contains wrong speculation, with commit-side register; penalty: it takes time to refill the pipeline with meaningful works 

Q1: Do we need to stall when we want to issue an instruction but the ROB is full?
Q2: Do we also need to clear all the RS due to the misprediction?

> we don't need to since there're nothing in the issue-side register or ROB waiting for the RS given that now they only contain values instead of tags. Another rule is that when a RS completes its execution and broadcast some information through the common data bus, it should be made available for following issued instructions.

Q3: What if we predict that it will jump? When'll we start the speculation?



discuss the subtleties:

* Does this approach detect the misprediction as soon as possible to reduce the misprediction penalty?

* multi-issue?

* **How do we handle the second branch before the first is solved?** No problems here!

* load/stores with speculation: If we store to memory directly during speculation, it will be hard to cancel this operation. So maybe we can cache the store operations in a store buffer and actually store during the commit stage. But this means that we cannot fetch the latest update in the memory when we're loading during execution!

  A possible solution is that we try to *forward* the data inside the ROB. We add a **store buffer** unit. When a load operation is issued, we try to find a latest store instruction which writes to the same address as the load ins(before that we should wait at the RS for all preceding store instructions to make sure that all address they are writing to are determined). If it can be found we can directly forward the value without accessing the memory, otherwise we are confident that the update at the address has been written back to memory since the related commit stage has ended, in this case we can fetch the data from memory.

  If we don't want to wait for all the preceding store operations to determine their writing address, we can still *gamble*! This is another type of speculation.

Q4: R2=R3 maybe typo?



## design alternatives

### RUU

register update unit(RUU) vs. ROB; RUU = ROB + RS; Dispatcher select a ready instruction and send it to an appropriate functional unit; selection is delayed;

RUU is a ring buffer and tag is an id inside RUU. The tag no longer represents a functional unit. RUU can be directly indexed by the tag, so we don't need comparators as we do in RS. **In other words, in Tomasulo+ROB design, issue-side registers, ROB and RS all need comparators since they use tags to compare. But with RUU, tags are RUU id, so RUU don't need comparators since it can be directly indexed. This is the idea of dynamic renaming, registers are renamed to RUU ids, or tags.**  

**Also we should emphasize again that registers are used to transfer through instructions. It's an important perspective.**

### Pentium III/NetBurst(Pentium IV)

Pentium III: avoid copying register content btw issue and commit side, issue side do not store actual value, there's a pointer for every register which points to a ROB entry or a retired register file(RFF, aka commit-side register)

Pentium IV: separate register file(data only) and ROB(status only), ROB is still a queue, but register file is fully dynamic

analysis of Pentium IV: multi-issue; decoder translate inst into $\mu$ops, what trace cache does?; after issue, RF allocation;

misprediction pipeline(more complicated than normal execution): III 10 stages while IV 20 stages and can run at a higher clock rate



## Summary of dynamic scheduling

pros: reduced dependency on compile-time scheduling; reduce stalls of the whole machine due to cache missing or other time-consuming computation; register-renaming loosen the ISA constraints 

cons: increased pipeline depth and misprediction penalty; (potential) increased area and power consumption; hard to predict/optimize for developers

